---
title: A Walk with Eilun
draft: false
tags:
  - fate-episode
  - slashy
  - zaaru
---
<p class="kitah">Kitah:</p>

After discussing some initial plans for the [[Arkhan Fortress]] heist, [[Mirah]] and I were stuffing our faces at the guild hall as usual when we spotted [[Eilun]] also sitting at the bar. We hadn’t spoken since our adventure at the [[Kharsis Swamplands]], so we went over to say hi. The cat was shy as always, but seemed quite happy and relieved to see us safe and sound. Yeah… I kinda had to tell [[Mirah]] not to go into how we nearly got killed fighting those vipers, I didn’t want [[Eilun]] to get worried…

Anyway, I asked [[Eilun]] if he’d made any progress with his starlight magic since we last met; after all, he was the only other person we knew of that knew it and was willing to share knowledge. Admittedly, it was partly because, well… that recurring nightmare was still a little fresh in my mind, and I was hoping he might know something about it. I opened up about it to him, and kinda got a little choked up while explaining, aheh… At first I was worried that I’d overshared, but [[Eilun]] was very understanding. He invited us to go on a walk, so we left the guild hall together and made our way to the forests outside [[Risedon]]. 

When we got there, [[Eilun]] asked us if we were familiar with [[Neralmia]]’s laws regarding astral magic; naturally, we didn’t know very much. As it turns out, while solar and lunar magic are all fair game, it’s starlight and cosmic magic in particular that are forbidden. Of course, it being restricted knowledge makes it quite difficult to learn anything about it, but despite that, it seems [[Eilun]] managed to do quite a bit of research just through self-study and trial and error. He pulled out a rather thick, silver-trimmed book that was half-full of his own notes. I can’t imagine reading anything that long, much less writing that much…

[[Eilun]] showed me his notes on a phenomenon he called… involuntary emotional… something? I can’t remember how exactly he called it, but he hypothesized that strong emotions could cause people to involuntarily cast magic or cause it to manifest. He wasn’t sure if it had anything to do with my nightmares - that could just be my emotions well, haunting me - but suggested that I might unintentionally be summoning [[Mirah]]’s phantom because of my guilt over her death and desire to be with her. It makes sense but… we’ve never been attuned to starlight magic before, and even now I barely know how to use it. [[Eilun]] thinks it’s possible that I’ve always had some affinity for it within myself, and just never knew about it. I’m not sure if I believe it myself, but it’s more of a lead than we’ve ever had before… [[Eilun]] suggested something else too, though. If I was involuntarily summoning [[Mirah]]’s phantom because of my emotions… if I ever dealt with that trauma, she might not be able to manifest anymore… I’ve never been able to get over what happened, but if [[Eilun]]’s theory is true… if I ever came to terms with [[Mirah]]’s death, does that mean… I’d lose her again?

Before I could get any more lost in thought, [[Eilun]] said he had something else to show me; he’d been practicing some higher-level starlight magic, and wanted to show me a spell he’d been working on. [[Mirah]] and I took a step back, and watched as he created a huge field of radiant starlight. I couldn’t help but get a little starry-eyed, heh… Fortunately for me, I don’t think [[Eilun]] would have noticed, as the spell seemed to take quite a lot out of him. It really was impressive, though, and I made sure the cat knew that. He was shy about it, as usual, but I could tell he was happy about my praise. And he deserves it! For someone to have figured out this much about starlight magic, all on their own, when it’s forbidden knowledge… As [[Mirah]] would say, that’s super cool… 

Out of nowhere, it suddenly started to rain pretty hard. [[Eilun]] panicked as he didn’t want his notes to get wet and ruined, so we ran for a nearby alcove in a cliff face to get some shelter from the rain. Fortunately, his notes were perfectly fine, and we sat down together while waiting for the rain to pass. He pulled out a novel - I think it was a gift from [[Rook]]? - and said he wanted to give a gift back to Rook to repay the favor, asking me if I knew what he liked. I had to admit that, aside from his… rather relatable interest in strong, bare-chested men, I didn’t actually know [[Rook]] very well beyond him being an exceptional cleric and trustworthy ally. We really should find a good time to get to know each other better… Still, knowing [[Eilun]]’s affinity for stories and writing, I suggested he write Rook a little story or poem, or even a simple letter of appreciation.

As we continued to wait for the rain, [[Eilun]] opened up to me a little more. He said he admired us and the stories of our adventures, and that he wishes he could go on adventures with us someday. He expressed a particular interest in exploring the outer rim of [[Neralmia]] someday; apparently, it was actually formed artificially by part of the moon crashing down from the sky around the start of this era, and was considered to be inhabitable only a few centuries ago. [[Mirah]] and I wanted to make a promise with him that we’d go on that adventure, but… he wasn’t sure he’d be able to. At first, I thought this was a problem of self-confidence and tried to encourage him, but then he revealed his past to me… 

[[Eilun]] wasn’t actually from this time period, but rather originally came from roughly fifty years in the past. He came from a pretty poor family, but had quite a gift for learning magic. When he stumbled upon scrolls for cosmic magic and learned how to manipulate time - a very rare skill for people then and now - his parents pushed him to use his newfound knowledge to take on jobs and earn money. But at some point, tired of his magic being treated less like a pursuit of wonder and curiosity and more like just a means to make money, he got into a fight with his parents and ran away from home. All alone, he wound up surrounded by hostile creatures, and in a panic, his fear must have caused his cosmic magic to manifest involuntarily. He found that he’d effectively sent himself into the future, no longer with any idea what things were like or with anyone around him whom he knew. Eventually, he was found by [[Risedon]] guards and put under surveillance after they learned he’d made use of forbidden magic. Since then, he’s been hanging around the guild and learning about starlight magic, though he’s been struggling to fit into this new time period and hasn’t made many friends at all. My heart broke for him after hearing his story, and I wasn’t really sure what to say… 

##### <p class="mirah">Mirah:</p>

We kinda had to take a moment to process [[Eilun]]’s story. Even I was speechless for a bit, and that doesn’t happen often! I can’t imagine what it must be like to suddenly find yourself in a different time, where you barely recognize the world and people around you… But, I know well what it feels like to be separated from those you love, and I wanted to comfort him. I made sure he knew that we, as his friends, would be there for him however we could. 

He told us that ever since his time-traveling incident, he didn’t wanna use his cosmic magic anymore, in fear that he’d get lost in time and be separated from everyone he knows all over again… But I think people shouldn’t let their fears stop them from doing cool things! Despite everything that’s happened, I don’t regret my decision to protect [[Kitah]], even if I died… after all, I may not have my physical body anymore, but I’m still here with my brother, and I can still make friends with everyone! I told [[Eilun]], things just have a way of working out eventually, and that taking the risk can be worth it! If anything went wrong and he did end up lost in time again, I’m sure he’d find a way back, and if not, we’d find a way to see him again. Friends don’t leave each other behind, after all… I saw his big eyes get all teary after that, and the three of us shared a hug. Hah… in some ways he really does remind me of [[Kitah]] when he was younger… shy, kinda awkward, emotional… but it also means I admire him, and I know he’ll step up when he needs to.

Anyway, I guess his (super cool!) light show earlier and opening up about himself exhausted him, because he asked if we could watch over him while he took a nap. Aww… it’s really nice to know he’s comfy enough around us to just do that. [[Kitah]] and I sat by him, letting him nap peacefully while keeping watch and waiting for the rain to end. Honestly… [[Eilun]] looks pretty cute sleeping, curled up in a little ball of black fur and sparkly stuff… so when he woke up, I just told him that. Is that weird to say? I don’t know, but he got really flustered and turned all red, and [[Kitah]] told me I shouldn’t just say stuff like that. I’m pretty sure he thought the same, though; I noticed he was also blushing a bit, heheh… 

<p class="kitah">Kitah:</p>

[[Mirah]]… Erm, moving on… It was evening when [[Eilun]] woke up from his nap. Fortunately, the rain had also died down by then, so we returned to the guild to get some dinner. I got my usual two plates of meat, and [[Eilun]] got some salad. The cat’s not much of an eater though, and only got through about half of his food before he offered me the rest of it, so I cleaned up my plates and then his. He was pretty amazed at how I could eat so much and still stay in shape. Well, [[Mirah]] and I train pretty hard for both dancing and fighting, and we perform around town pretty often, I told him. I did not expect him to bring up my, er… “twerking” in response… I’m never gonna live this down… 

Anyway…! The day was coming to an end, so [[Eilun]] thanked us for accompanying him… before giving me another hug, which I didn’t expect. Admittedly my reaction time was a little slow there… but [[Mirah]] once again threw out the promise that we’d go on that adventure together someday, somehow. This time, the cat responded with a smile, before awkwardly saying good-bye and going up to his room for the night. As we watched him leave, [[Mirah]] tried teasing me about liking him… like, that kind of liking him… and I mean, I admit [[Eilun]]’s really cute, but I don’t think either of us see it that way… as far as I’m concerned, he’s just a good friend I’d like to see around more often.