---
title: S10 -
draft: false
tags:
  - main-story
---
*July 11-17, 3E 1564*

<p class="rook">Rook</p>

It’s time for us to leave [[Neralmia]] behind, at least for now. The guild is interested in extending its wings to [[The Outer Rim]], where we’re to occupy an old run-down mansion and rebuild it into something worthy of [[The Skybound Wanderers]]! This will be an excellent opportunity to see more of the world, and maybe bring home some amazing knowledge one day. By home, of course, I mean [[Risedon]]… I suppose it is rather like a second home to me now.

  

The preliminary meeting began with good news. The letter I had written to the officials of Risedon, as well as the one I had helped [[Kitah]] write, had found their mark; the powers that be were moved by our appeal to allow [[Eilun]] to see the world and come with us on the expedition, rather than be bound to Risedon. He was granted official leave, as long as we at the guild kept an eye on him. Kitah’s been spending a lot of time with Eilun lately, so I’m sure there’ll be no problem there.

  

The plan was to split the guild into two parties; one would take The Morning Star to Everfall, and the other would take…a different ship. I don’t remember the name. The party who raided Arkhan would be on the former, along with a few of our allies. And so we headed off to Ekron to see the ship for ourselves!

  

At Ekron, Isaac took us to The Morning Star, where we promptly boarded and received a lovingly detailed tour from Astar, who’d be navigating the ship just as he’d done when we went to the church. It was perfect for our needs, having multiple levels for us to relax and manage the ship as we sailed. And just enough beds, as well.

  

We sailed for two days, a rather uneventful voyage, until we entered some rough waters a few hours’ travel from Everfall. It wasn’t just the water–it was the stuff of nightmares. A mighty kraken rose its ugly head from the water, and began to attack the ship with its numerous tentacles!

  

The crew the guild had hired were indispensable in fending off the great aquatic beast. I used Prestidigitation to enchant the cannonballs with a foul odour, before compelling the panicking crew to fire them at the Kraken. Mori, Mirah and Kitah also worked together to fire from another cannon, while Paracelsus brought to bear an incredible enchantment which grew Isaac to a much greater size, allowing him to keep a couple of the tentacles at bay.

  

However, a tentacle was able to slip past him and catch me in its slimy grasp; a disgusting feeling I’ll not soon forget. It knocked me about a bit, but clumsily dropped me due to the attacks it had been suffering. As the others kept up the offensive, I summoned my dragon aspects and launched their breath attacks at the tentacle, which luckily seemed to do enough damage to drive the beast away.

  

We licked our wounds as I checked on Astar, and finally completed our voyage to Everfall. Hazelport was the name of the town where we dropped anchor. Next step, according to Astar, was to register with an official, so we flagged down a secretary in a very official-looking building nearby, and registered the ship and our arrival in the name of the guild.

  

Astar had us head to Dawnhearth, our future settlement, as he made preparations to transport our food and other supplies from the ship. And so we did–witnessing our new settlement in all its run-down glory. I even had the honour of unlocking the front door for the first time! It’s a lot of space, though, so I’m sure we’ll be happy here once we conduct some repairs.

  

Night arrived quickly as we’d been cleaning and removing rubble all day (especially Paracelsus, who worked extra diligently with his magic). The lot of us put our bedrolls down in the main hall, which was now the cleanest place in the building(!), and settled down for a good night’s rest.

  

In the middle of the night, Astar arrived with some of the supplies kept in a wagon outside. He didn’t want to disturb anyone, so he tiptoed indoors and shut the door quietly…and then put his bedroll down next to mine. I tried not to make any noise, despite how happy that made me feel!

  

The following morning was a gentle, cold one; it’ll take some time to get used to the crisp Everfall weather, but I don’t dislike it. Astar decided we could all make breakfast together if we got the supplies together for it! So I gathered firewood as Kitah helpfully brought in a stack of hazelnuts he’d found. Mori lit the fire and made a delicious sauce with them (who knew he could cook so well when he wanted to?) as Astar prepared the meat for the stew. It felt cosy, seeing us work together on something as simple as a meal; hopefully a good sign for the days of work to come!

  

Eilun was a bit of a late riser, even after Bertea poked him to come join us, but that’s exactly why we saved him a portion of the food! The cute lad was delighted we did, which warmed my heart. Eilun really does light up the room when he smiles; I hope we can bring him many more such smiles in the weeks ahead.