---
title: Milling some Bandits
tags:
  - fate-episode
  - nico
  - zaaru
  - chuji
  - ray
---
<p class="akira">Written by Akira</p>

[[Risedon, the Capital of Stars|Risedon]], major city of magic. How bitterly ironic that my endeavours would lead me here of all places, but this is where most people suggested me to go in order to find this particular adventurer's guild: [[The Skybound Wanderers]]. It would probably do me best to see this city as a means to an end for now, I have to improve my skills in order to attain my goal one day.

Anyway, the guards seemed friendly enough and the one that halted me was quite helpful, though it seems that word of [[Sheliff]]'s fate managed to spread even across the ocean and reach ears here. I didn't need a reminder of what happened, but apparently this was an extraordinary circumstance if people heard of it this far away from the [[Smoking Isles]]...

The guard sent me on my way after I got instructions on how to find this guild, and it was close to the gate so I got there quickly. In front of it, I ran into a tiny blue fella and a fellow catfolk - quite nice to meet one, I miss the company of my people at times. Their names are [[Fyr]] and [[Rook]] respectively, and as it turned out, they're also guild members of the Skybound Wanderers! Following some brief chatter, they offered to take me inside and introduce me; how nice to see that a foreign cat can expect hospitality from strangers...

And a nice guild it is, from the inside looks! Spacious, just like a cat would appreciate. The head of the guild, [[Furiko]] as I was told, seemed to be out on business. The next-highest in charge was a guy called [[Astar]], who welcomed me and asked the other two if they could help with a problem. Apparently, a group of bandits had seized a local sawmill and the owner wanted it returned (in relatively intact condition, of course). Seeing as how I wanted to become a guild member myself, Astar offered to send me with those two, to which we all agreed. Bandits, taking from the innocent and weak? Not with me.

There also was something said about a magical scroll - I suppose I should have expected as much in a city of importance to spellslingers. Fyr in particular seemed very excited at the mention of that, which was a sign of what I had signed up for. Yeah, lucky me got teamed up with a mage - the irony doesn't stop, does it? Rook himself is a Cleric as I found out - also using spells, hooray for me, but at least he seems to dedicate himself as a healer, so I suppose I can excuse his use of...divination it was, I think. Had enough time to learn a thing or two about the theories of magic.

Introducing them to my beloved Arquebus as my weapon of choice, the three of us set out and made our (uneventful, for a mercy) way to the sawmill. Things were quiet, though we soon encountered some giant toads in front of the property. Rook, choosing wits over brawn, used some of his rations to deter them from going at us - the things seemed very hungry in fact, as one of them ate everything and the other soon started fighting it over the food. We deemed it best to find another path as they were occupied, and found a ladder that would take us up towards the sawmill proper. Only that the ladder gave in under me as I climbed up after Rook.

Well, it was a soft and small fall, but ungraceful nonetheless. We fashioned a rope ladder using our equipment and were able to get closer to the building, which we did quietly as we suspected the bandits to be around and possibly alert. Rook did in fact pick up on some sounds in the building as we approached, so we hid behind a nearby large rock and Fyr gave me a mirror which I used to spy around the cover through one of the windows. Indeed, there were a few Orcs rummaging around inside, which didn't last for long. Should have checked for the sun, because I reflected some sunlight straight into the eyes of one of the bandits by accident, oops.

Thus made aware, a brawl broke out immediately. I heard one of those brutes smash something (presumably themselves) into the window I spied through, though the glass was sturdier than they thought. Idiot. I took my time waiting for everyone to be distracted, but by everything that is holy, if Fyr touches my weapon again and makes it glow without warning me beforehand I'm going to give him a taste of what he did to my weapon. Ugh, mages. It's a miracle I didn't throw my weapon away in shock! In retrospect I can't deny it was helpful, the weapon seemed to pack a heftier punch than usual. Obliterated that Orc at the window completely, heart blown out. Yeah, I'm a good shot, what can I say?

Those brutes were not to be underestimated though! They had their tactics down and flanked Rook together, poor guy took a really nasty hit...wasn't enough to bring him down, and we dispatched the remaining two bandits. Thankfully my weapon stopped glowing soon after the fight, and after Rook patched himself up we took a look inside the sawmill. There wasn't much of interest and things seemed intact, though Fyr apparently found a scroll that was mentioned by Astar, good for him I guess. We also liberated a badger from a toolshed before we worked our way around the perimeter, though we were attacked by some vipers when we tried to cross the stream of water that was there (Fyr is so tiny he had to sit on Rook's shoulders, heh).

Ugh, those things packed some nasty poison! I (playfully) wonder if we would have been better off feeding Fyr to them as they seemed to view him as a snack but, way too gruesome a fate, he doesn't deserve that. After we got rid of the vipers (Fyr made himself useful, credit where it's due), Rook treated our small companion and me and we managed to stop the poison from doing further harm. Going further, we encountered one of those massive toads again. Seemed a bit hungry still, and had slaughtered the other one in their fight, sheesh. We gave it some food and pressed further on, finding some tents where the bandits made camp. There were still two left, sleeping soundly, which we used to our advantage and made short work of them.

Their camp contained the riches and remaining things they had stolen, and after a quick cursory look we concluded that we managed to liberate the sawmill. Grabbing the valuables, we made our way back to the guild and reported to Astar and the owner of the sawmill. Seems Orc bandits have a bit of a history here, demanding money from the people in the surrounding area in exchange for not attacking. This poor guy didn't pay and paid a different price, but now his sawmill is free again. He gave us a reward and let Fyr keep the scroll he found, before departing. Rook and Fyr also both vouched for me (how nice) and Astar offered to skip ahead of the usual things and have me go about an [[Skybound Wanderers Initiate!|Initiate Mission]] on Sunday to become a full guild member.

Well, things can't go fast enough there, so who would I be to decline such an opportunity? After saying my goodbyes to them, it'd seem that things are going better than expected. From what Astar said, we're gonna go into some catacombs to retrieve some knowledge, wonder how that will go...

-Akira