---
title: Skybound Wanderers Initiate!
tags:
  - fate-episode
  - nico
  - ray
  - [[Isaac]]
  - zaaru
---
<p class="akira">Written by Akira</p>

The day had come at last, my mission to become an initiate within the guild was at hand. I got there bright and early, and ran into [[Fyr]] once more. It seemed that he was going to accompany me on this mission, but not [[Rook]] who, as I was told, had gone out on another quest. Lucky me, right? I got to meet [[Furiko]] this time, who also gave me a warm welcome and introduced me to [[Isaac]], a Paladin who apparently had come to join us to evaluate and judge the guild’s methods of recruiting. Can’t complain, some extra paws are always helpful.

So it was going to be the three of us, and [[Fyr]] went to the huge library of the city to gain knowledge about the mines we were to explore. Seems there had been cave-ins that brought the whole mining operation to a halt, no real indication for what to expect other than a possibly unstable mine and possibly some traps. We completed our preparations and set out, reaching the mines without issue. [[Fyr]] made [[Isaac]] into our glowing beacon of light - almost literally, touched our companion and he started shining! Ugh, what else can that little guy do…

We quickly came across a 20 foot drop, and there were some undead dogs on the ground where we would get into the mineshaft proper. Well, they couldn’t reach us, so we took them out from afar before figuring out a way down. Ultimately, there’s always a way down, the problem is usually finding a way up again. [[Isaac]] had a grappling gun (I’ve seen those before around [[Pholens]], cool things!) so we shot a rope down to the ground below us. Unfortunately, [[Isaac]] was also hungry and spilled peanut butter on the rope, so he slipped on that and fell down. [[Fyr]] went next and also slipped on it, off to a great start!

I skipped the splatter of peanut butter on the rope, but there was another one which I overlooked, so guess what? No, I caught the rope as I fell! Unfortunately I couldn’t hold on long enough and took a softer fall than those two, not exactly a great performance by us but [[Isaac]]’s healing capabilities had us covered. We then finally went on into the mine proper and had a look around, there were a bunch of tunnels as well as bodies, reduced to skeletons. There was no valuable information with those things, so we decided to press further into the mine, where we encountered more skeletons…animated ones! It was a brief scuffle (oh yeah and undead dogs, yay) and we destroyed them, allowing us to explore further. We came upon more forks and went in deeper, until we reached one dead end that seemed to be a particularly unstable section of the mine, the support beam was hanging on by a thread as a somewhat learned engineer could tell. We found something in the rubble and [[Isaac]] fetched it when the ceiling and support beam started to give in, so we ran like hell and made it into a stable section before the tunnel collapsed behind us. Close call!

Our escape landed us with two ways forward, namely one of the tunnels and some door. We had learned that the doors could be trapped and seal people without authentication inside the rooms; the door was indeed trapped as I surmised and we brought an axle of a minecart in to hopefully block the door when it would close. Didn’t work out quite as well, damn door snapped the axle in half when [[Isaac]] stepped into the chamber, but he managed to get a tool and pry the door open, effectively jamming it. Good thing we had him with us! Inside the chamber it seemed to be a sleeping quarter for the occupants…a trapped one. [[Isaac]] stepped into a spike trap, so we were on our guard from then on out after he had healed himself.

Following this was another chamber, but this time we managed to disable the trap built into the hinge instead. No door slamming shut on us this time! It was a storage room without anything of interest, safe for a living hand that huddled into a barrel as we approached. Didn’t seem particularly dangerous at first, so [[Fyr]] gave it a marble. Interestingly enough, it played with it and even did a little stunt, and then seemingly befriended him? At least it crawled on his shoulder and tickled him playfully, so yeah, that’s how we got a creepy hand as a companion.

We ended up coming about a giant chamber (and more undead) which seemed to be some sort of community hall? Big tables and stuff, and some desk on top of almost a podium kinda thing. There were some actually huge (non-animate) skeletons in there too, like actually huge. One of them had crushed a table and another had been crushed by a boulder from the ceiling. I found a little gem on that one important looking desk, seemed to have some arcane nature to it so I gave it to [[Fyr]], not my kinda stuff.

Well, we were slowly running out of areas to explore and eventually came back around to the area we first found the skeletons in, with a path leading to two more chambers. One of those (we disabled the traps on those doors, though one required more, hm, encouragement by our accompanying Paladin) was another living chamber by the people of the mine, but the other seemed to indeed be an administrative office of sorts. We found plenty of records there with some details on what went on, pretty good.

Lastly we went for an area which had a sickly green glow to it, turned out there were fungi growing which emitted toxic spores. Thankfully, we were able to stop the spread temporarily by hitting them from a distance using our various skills and utilities, and made haste through that chamber. To our surprise, as we then pressed on, we were confronted by a skeleton guard who began speaking to us. Yeah, think you’ve seen it all, and the world throws something new at you.

So as it turned out, he and the other skeletons were guardians of an old civilization that lived down in those caverns, and a crystal was the source of them being animated. When the mining operation came down there, they got rid of them and caused cave-ins to flush them out, which I guess worked pretty well in their favour. Also the crystal can apparently grow skeletons to larger sizes, which explained those huge skeletons we had seen in that big hall.

Obviously, as a guard, he and his two accompanying skeletons regarded us as intruders and accused us of wanting to steal their crystal. I didn’t really care about it, but I could clearly see the greed for knowledge in [[Fyr]], he really wanted to study it. The guard wasn’t having any of it though and threatened to make us one of theirs…I think I still have enough to live for (fully alive) though, so we respectfully declined and tried to reason. I pressed [[Fyr]] to make a choice eventually, knowledge or retreat peacefully, but he just…froze up??

Thanks to that, the guards finally engaged us in combat, and the leader seemed rather smart and capable. It wasn’t enough to stop us, but definitely one of the tougher things I’ve worked on laying low thus far. With the opposition reduced to harmless bones, we went forward and found the chamber containing the crystal the skeleton spoke of. I left it to [[Fyr]] to check for traps, but his glasses must’ve been dirty because he failed to spot any, resulting in [[Isaac]] getting hurt again. At that point I really felt bad for him, so I took a look myself and pointed out the remaining traps.

The thing surrounding the crystal was…intriguing, to say the least. Nicely constructed, and it must’ve powered some smelting apparatus of some fashion a long time ago. Now it was inert safe for the crystal itself glowing, and [[Fyr]] took his sweet time writing down everything he could about what he gleaned from it. Must’ve been something of importance or powerful, I shudder to think about it. And he really wanted to take it back to the city for studies, despite necromancy (which this thing was capable of) not exactly being a favoured thing in there? Gods help me…

So how exactly did he convince me to help him get the crystal out of the apparatus? I have no idea, though I will say that the construction of everything surrounding it was very intricate, an honest engineer couldn’t help but be captivated. It took us some tries (thankfully without setting off a trap) but I eventually managed to disassemble the device and the crystal flew into [[Fyr]]’s tiny paws. Awesome, mission successful, even though I never wanted to have the crystal in the first place. Ugh [[Fyr]], if we had died in there because of a stupid artefact, you wouldn’t have heard the end of it.

Interestingly, the artefact allowed us to enter a previously locked chamber, seemed to have been a living chamber of that ancient civilization. Oh, and we found a second living hand inside a bathroom there, which joined the first one after those two interacted briefly, so now [[Fyr]] had two hands on his shoulders, and of course he wanted to take them to the city as well…I’ll be so fair and mention that the hands helped us disable the fungi again that blocked the exit, and we made it back to the surface without incident or peanut butter slip-ups. We split up after we arrived in Risedon, [[Isaac]] and I went to the guild while [[Fyr]] took the hands and crystal to the Spire so they’d decide what would happen to them. Locked up for good, at least the crystal, I hope.

[[Fyr]] had provided me with a copy of his report, so [[Isaac]] and I delivered that to [[Furiko]] while also adding some details ourselves. [[Isaac]] also gave the guild a passing grade, so good for them! [[Fyr]] joined us a while later, turns out they had indeed taken the crystal into “safe” storage, while the hands were now in his private study, apparently? I’ll never understand the fascination for such creepy, magical creations…

Nevertheless, I was then formally and officially welcomed into the guild by [[Furiko]] and received my Initiate insignia, which meant I was always welcome in the building! [[Isaac]]’s going to stay in the city for a while longer, maybe I’ll go on a quest with him again before he departs? Who knows, we’ve done well working together at least. [[Fyr]] bought a huge mug of ale to celebrate, he was barely able to hold it up, let alone drink it all! Thankfully I am always eager to help, so I held it for him and made him chug down the whole thing. Lightweight like him was gonna feel that one for a while, haha!

Heh…guess this is going to be my temporary home and base of operations for the time being…can I really call it “home” though? I don’t think I should or want to…

-[[Akira]]