---
title: "Xayamynx: A Strange Visitor"
tags:
  - fate-episode
---

*NOTE: This particular segment is not written in first person as Xayamynx hasn’t learnt to write yet 💀*

On a fine day like any other, a strange bat found their way into Risedon, lost and scatterbrained. When questioned by the guards at the gates, she said that she needed to see the Skybound Wanderers, and that she’s looking for a specific person; one with orange mane, shiny red armour, and a giant axe. However, Xaya was not the best speaker of Altemian, and her behaviour was terribly unlike any other normal person, which made the guards rather sceptical and suspicious. Fortunately, Akira happened to be on guard duty, and stepped in to witness the spectable.After some conversation and assessment, and because of the damaged and burnt Skybound Wanderer emblem Xaya had on her person, she decided to allow Xaya into the city while keeping a close watch on her.

Akira had her hands full as Xaya got herself into many shenanigans. In one instance, Akira told Xaya to walk in front of her so that Akira could watch over her. On their way to the Skybound Wanderer’s guild hall… Xaya continued walking absent mindedly, causing Akira to call her back in a slightly shocked manner. It was then Akira wondered what she was getting into.

Kitah, Mirah, Rook, and Mori were in the guild hall at the time, so Akira had the opportunity to introduce herself to the Wanderers she had not yet met. When Xaya got herself into trouble, Akira quickly, and a little embarrassingly, escorted Xaya to meet with Guildmaster Furiko. However, even the Guildmaster himself did not know what to make of the bat. The Skybound Wanderer emblem on her is indeed a real one, but no one knows the person Xaya described or how she even got here in the first place.

Wise and gentle, Furiko decided to give Xaya a chance to become a Skybound Wanderer, seeing that Xaya was… practically harmless, and that it was always the guild’s duty to help someone in need. So, Furiko gave Xaya a test - to carry a large boulder using only her strength. While Xaya struggled, she was determined, and she managed to lift the boulder above her knees… but when Furiko noticed that she was definitely over-exerting herself, he asked her to stop, which made Xaya drop the boulder onto the wooden floor and create a hole from the impact (Akira was NOT happy). And so, Furiko decided that Xaya would be a trainee, and if she put the effort to train herself mentally, socially, and physically, she would be deemed worthy to be a Skybound Wanderer. Xaya, overjoyed, expressed her enthusiasm to do her best.

The rest of the day involved Xaya introducing herself to the other Wanderers. While talking with Rook, his patient demeanour helped ease Xaya to speak with the others. While talking to the dragon twins, Mirah managed to learn a little bit about Xaya’s past from bits of information scattered during their exchanges. While talking to Mori, Bertea joined in on that conversation too, and inquired about the differences between family, friends, and tribes. Afterwards, Akira suggested that Xaya could use a tour around the city while she assessed the damages done to the floor, to which Kitah and Mirah accepted. When they returned, the dragon twins shared some information with Rook regarding Xaya from their observations.
  
To name some of Xaya’s tendencies, she tends to repeat herself often, has trouble understanding words with higher complexities, and her mood seems to drastically shift when discussing certain topics. During conversation, it could be somewhat difficult to understand her, as the things she says would often baffle others, and whenever she trails off or goes completely silent after saying something, it becomes terribly awkward to keep the conversation going. Even while she had trouble grasping the concepts of names, governments, and the intricacies of society, she displayed willingness to learn.

From observation, Xaya came from a distant island and found herself here after a long trip, and thus completely foreign to the concepts of cities and settlements. Perhaps, with enough patience and understanding, the Skybound Wanderers could find themselves with a new ally…