---
title: Better Call Paul
tags:
  - fate-episode
---
[[Furiko]] requested that I go out and purchase a ship for the guild. He handed me a fat sack of gold. I must go to the port city of [[Ekron]] to carry out this deed. We are going to buy one ship that we will use for transportation and other tasks. The guild will also be buying a second ship for carrying out multiple missions.

Before heading out, I head to the [[Weeping Staff]] to spend my own gold on a rune to enhance my sword. The owner borrowed my sword and magically etched the rune onto the guard of the handle. I had no gold left but I wandered around window shopping at different stores for a minute.

The guild paid for a wagon that I took to reach [[Ekron]]. It was a peaceful ride as we traversed the hills. I felt the sea breeze on my face and heard seagulls as I approached the city. I hop off of the carriage and a guard asks for my name. On seeing my badge, I am let in and I head for the market to conduct my purchases. I meet a lady selling kraken meat at a stall and I request a free sample to which she agrees. I bought a plate because she was nice and it was pretty tasty.

I walk to the government district of this port town and explore a bit to see what the place has going on. I ask a tiny cat with a moustache where I can purchase a ship for my guild. He said he would put me into contact with some people who could help me get a good deal. He leaves for a minute and comes back with 3 people. One is wearing a green outfit, one wearing blue and the last a tiny rat in red. They all look very elegant and they start bombarding me with offers of buying marvelous ships. One is called The Alabastar, the next is The Searing Sorrow, and finally [[The Morning Star]]. I ask them about their ships. The Alabastar has cannons and siege weapons that could be used like dragonkillers for fighting krakens. The Searing Sorrow was a pirate ship that was repurposed and is very sturdy and fast and has a "cool pirate design". [[The Morning Star]] is a new ship that is very spacious and cozy. It has a lot of rooms and you could live on the ship if you needed to. It has an alchemy room, cooking room and a lot of space for crewmates to be living in so it's very good for carrying cargo. It also has pots for plants.

On hearing all their detailed selling points, I immediately leave and find a guard named [[Gavin]] working in a manhole. I ask him if he trusts the merchants selling ships and he says they would probably scam him. So I ask Gavin to come with me to watch over the deal. He agrees and I have him accompany me to the government district where I find the law offices and pay to hire a lawyer to preside over the contracts and ensure I'm not being scammed. I met [[Paul Bunman]], an attorney who is an expert in legal matters. He assures me he knows how to deal with these scammers.

I return to the merchants and they look very nervous at the sight of the famous attorney extraordinaire. I ask where the ships are and if we can inspect them. They say yes and they allow me and my helpers to investigate them to make sure they're up to code.

On The Alabastar, I immediately notice there's no cannons and the green merchant says I have to purchase them separately. I call him out and convince him to give me two with purchase or I won't even consider it. After inspection, I notice the mechanical contraptions on the dragonkillers are very worn and could probably break and hurt the ship and users after a short time. Mr. Bunyan notices that there is rotting wood on the deck of the ship that is dangerous and could hurt someone if they stepped on it and it broke. I reported these findings to [[Gavin]] and he nearly hurts himself stepping on one of the rotten planks. [[Paul Bunman]] agrees that the ship is not up to code and that we will have to fine the green merchant for this disregard for safety. He looks very angry with me and he will probably remember me after the fines. He says he cannot afford to maintain the ship and I suggested he sell his fancy clothes and find another profession. I leave without purchasing The Alabaster. [[Gavin]] asks the green merchant to stay with him while he processes the fines which would amount to 80 gold.

Next we board the Searing Sorrow, the pirate ship that is being offered by the blue merchant. It has been refurbished to look like a merchant ship. I ask him if he actually owns this ship and to show any documentation that proves ownership. I fail to completely understand the paperwork so I ask Bunman to inspect them for me. He asks the merchant about the name of his company. The name on the ship and the name on the legal documents is different so we cannot go ahead with the purchase. I told him that he must get this fixed and must wait in line for hours at the government building. The merchant asks to have a private conversation to which I refuse as I feel he is trying to kidnap or hurt me. So I threaten to use self defense and that I must have my lawyer present for these legal agreements of purchase. He backs down and we leave to check out the final ship.

Aboard [[The Morning Star]], owned by the red merchant rat. I explore and see all the living quarters. In the bottom floor I found some prison cells and a storage area. There is an alchemy room and a forge which looks like some kind of magical essence is leaking out. It may need special railings or repairs to make sure it doesn't hurt someone. I bring it up to the merchant and he says he can have it fixed as part of the purchase. I inspect the kitchen for cleanliness and it looks fine. I measured the anchor's chain and it seemed too short to anchor in a deep sea area so I asked the merchant to add extra length before I consider purchasing. In the living quarters a monkey bolted off when I was checking under the bed. I chase it upstairs and capture him and ask the merchant what this creature is about. He says he takes care of pests and he runs around with a knife to do so. I had concerns about the safety of a wild animal running around with a knife. I recall that this monkey is actually a monkey goblin. To convince me not to get rid of the monkey, he has the creature show off some knife skills which while impressive does not necessarily convince me. The merchant said he can be trained to do other tasks like cleaning so I agreed to take him off his hands in exchange for a 50g discount on the ship. The dragonkillers were also not in new condition so I brought it up to the merchant. After some prying I find that the merchant has been lending out the ship so he agrees to lower the price by 400g. I press the merchant to lower the price again to which he refuses but I point out that the ship is dirty and covered in scratch marks, probably from monkeys knifing the ground. He gets frustrated and agrees to lower the price if I find another monkey. So I grab the monkey again and shake it violently to convince it to lead me to his friends. He leads me back to the living quarters and I suddenly spot a tail hiding behind a plant. I sneak up to it and grab it and take both back to the merchant. He tries to play it off as me having brought a monkey onto the ship but [[Gavin]] and Bunman back me up and confirm that I did not have any creatures with me upon boarding. Bunman even said that he worked in monkey customs so he would know. The merchant gives up and Bunman writes up a contract to sell the ship to the guild, which we all sign. In the end of the deal I saved [[Furiko]] 200 gold and the merchant gave me the writ of ownership. I heal both of the monkeys with Lay on Paws to comfort them after I was grabbing them for a while. It would take a week to finalize the contracts, which would give us more than enough time to set sail when we needed to in 3 weeks. I thank Bunman and [[Gavin]] for their services. [[Gavin]] says the fines will go to good use in the government and he may even get a raise. Bunman hands me his business card and to call him through a dream message or whatever means I am able if I need him again. I thank the kraken merchant before I head for the wagon, for providing a hearty meal to keep me going through the day's work. I call for the wagon and ride back to [[Risedon]] to report my dealings to the guild.
[[Furiko]] is very impressed that I saved so much money for the guild and commends me for my negotiation skills. I mention the monkeys and [[Furiko]] says we can keep them around the ship for now and figure out in the future if we keep them or release them somewhere.

*Related: [[Manolo]], [[Ricardo]]*