---
title: S4 - To the Swamp
draft: false
tags:
  - main-story
---
<p class="rook">Rook</p>
An underground swamp awaited us after we’d made our preparations for the trip. I purchased a few items I thought would come in useful, such as antidotes and a “marvellous  miniature” ladder. Paracelsus would be coming with us, as hopefully we’d be able to find more clues about his Philosopher’s Stone heart. Our main mission, however, was to escort Kloros to cleanse the lands of blight (and maybe find some food for Mr. Twig along the way).

  

Making our first foray into the swamp, we were soon beset by a group of frogs, and Yoram had managed to fall into some quicksand. We fought off the frogs without exerting ourselves too much, and luckily, Yoram was able to escape the quicksand before being swallowed. However, that great patch of quicksand still lay before us as an obstacle.

  

Before I could suggest any alternatives, the party made for the direct approach, and I felt I had no choice but to acquiesce (or risk coming off as contrarian!). We tried to squeeze around a tree, when our friend Mori fell into the sand, and had less luck than Yoram in escaping.

  

It was a perilous, terrifying moment for us all as we witnessed the sand swallow Mori entirely. The poor lad had to hold his breath as we rescued him. Luckily, I had prepared the aforementioned ladder, which I unpacked and extended across the sand. With this as a foothold, and us holding the other end of the ladder, Mori was able to get himself out. Thank goodness! He’d been so brave, but it’s no surprise he seemed a bit frazzled by the experience.

  

We camped for the night after Paracelsus smartly used his magic to provide us a means of crossing the dangerous waters of the swamp. Not today, piranhas! I employed a Crystal of Alarm to ensure we’d be safe to sleep, alerted to any nighttime visitors. And indeed, the alarm rang as a rather large viper appeared to us in the middle of the night. We were able to shoo it away successfully, however, before resuming sleep.

  

Continuing to the east, we were beset by a viper of gargantuan proportions, joined by several of its smaller friends–including the larger one who had visited us in the night. It was a perilous battle, and many injuries were sustained, but my magic was just enough to keep the team up and running. Paracelsus vowed to stay back a bit more as we travelled, because his running head-first into the group had caused us to begin the battle with a weak formation.

  

At last, we arrived in Viemore, the swamp village. They weren’t exactly welcoming to us, however. The villagers shunned us, and we generally felt uncomfortable. Still, we have a mission to do, so proceed we shall.