---
title: S6 - The Witch
draft: false
tags:
  - main-story
---
<p class="rook">Rook</p>

With Paracelsus and Mori by my side, I was determined to reach the Witch’s hut and strike a deal with her. Paracelsus had asked me for help, and shown himself to be a good friend. I wasn’t going to deny him the answers he sought.

  

On the way, we happened across a skirmish between a group of small frogs and large desert toads, clearly not native to this region. Astonishingly, they all spoke our language! We discovered that the desert toads just wanted to go home, as the witch had brought them here, whereas the small frogs belonged to the witch and were harassing the toads.

  

We sided with the toads, causing the small frogs to scarper back to their mistress. The toads offered us a ride there, however, making the rest of the journey rather simple! Paracelsus had the brilliant idea of using our bedrolls to protect ourselves from their poisonous backs, which we promptly cleaned with Prestidigitation when we reached the hut.

  

We met with the witch, Rosaria, and I asked that she send those poor toads home, where she’d taken them from. She refused, seeming to believe that she had no obligation to do so. Thankfully, I was able to purchase their transfer home with a handful of Mudsworth–the reagent I had procured in Risedon for this exact purpose. I kept some still stashed in my bag, however.

  

Before she went outside to send the frogs home, however, we asked her about Paracelsus’ heart–the Philosopher’s Stone inside him. She seemed to know much about this, and presented to us a Stone of her own; one which bore a striking resemblance to our friend’s heart. However, upon getting close to the stone, we could hear the screams of multitudes of anguished souls crying out from within… It was a harrowing experience, and not one we want any part in.

  

She had offered Paracelsus power, and Paracelsus quite rightly refused.

  

With that happily out of the way, Mori and I stood watch as the Witch sent the toads back home. I had to pay an extra helping of Mudsworth for her to teleport them with magic right then; I didn’t trust her word that she would simply do it later. Meanwhile, Paracelsus…stole from her. I hate to commit this record of his crimes to paper, but he stole some kind of scrolls after going through her belongings. We made a quick exit, with Rosaria none the wiser, and I tried to put my fear of dealing with the witch aside.

  

The next morning, Kloros and I talked for a while. He said he’d soon find more food for Mr Twig and take further steps to resolve the blight in the local area. We were free to go, having completed what we set out to find here in the swamplands.

**