---
title: S9 - Red Moon Raid (Part 2)
draft: false
tags:
  - main-story
---
*June 23-24, 3E 1564*

After receiving the report of a successfully poisoned dinner, we used the time to explore more of the fortress–and preferably find a place to hide until dinner passed. We came across a small supply closet near the central throne room, and I raised the aforementioned suggestion of hiding to minimise how many guards we’d have to deal with as we walked around. The group seemed to like the suggestion, so we waited indeed..

  

Mori began to feel nervous, knowing that we’d be rescuing the prisoners soon, but some well-timed words from Kitah were able to calm him down. It warmed my heart to see it, honestly.

  

We immediately raided the prison room whilst the guards were busy eating, facing off against the evil Jailer who put Mori and Bertea in this entire situation. For all his vile machinations, he didn’t put up much of a fight, and Mori was able to knock him out with a fantastic, well-earned punch to the jaw. I felt satisfied just watching, seeing all the emotion behind that punch. I hope it was just as euphoric for Mori.

  

With the Jailer dispatched and unconscious, we unlocked the cells belonging to the three prisoners. Mori and Bertea had a tearful reunion, though unfortunately they had to put off the majority of their talk until later; the priority was getting them out. We distributed potions to each of the prisoners–potions which would allow them to make a speedy escape if needed. It was a contingency I thought to deploy when making preparations, so I bought the potions the day before the raid.

  

I also applied healing magic to the prisoners, at least to cure them of their short-term wounds. They would need sustenance and lots of rest to be fighting fit, but this would hopefully aid in their escape for now.

  

I advised that we make for the nearby northern balcony–one that we had crossed to reach the prison cells. Once there, I furnished us with a ladder token I had also purchased the morning prior, allowing for an easy descent down to the ground. Thankfully, the skeleton (who we nicknamed Fred…?) on watch was so sorely lacking in brains that he didn’t think anything of it.

  

Having left Arkhan temporarily, we took the prisoners to the border of a nearby forest and provided them with some of our food. We advised that they find a good hiding place in the forest, using the potions if needs be. They agreed, and we split ways, our party returning to the fortress.

  

The ladder we placed had disappeared, likely taken by a suspicious guard; saving the prisoners’ lives took absolute priority, so we couldn’t risk a 20-foot ladder slowing us down on their initial escape. I used Helpful Steps to allow us to easily access the balcony again, avoiding the need to take the main entrance which was reportedly guarded by their strongest.

  

Having made our way up (again, to complete indifference from your friend and mine, Fred the Skeleton), we immediately heard panicked yelling from indoors. The cultists were on higher alert because many of them were poisoned; our gambit had been a partial success. We came under greater suspicion and scrutiny from those who remained, but a great number had indeed been sent to sleep.

  

With time to kill until the chalice ritual, and with us having a good hunch of where it was stored, we made for the library and raided its shelves. We found a few more tomes of good value and promptly pocketed them; one on Bybulus, one on Philosopher’s Stone creation, and one on using organs for necromancy.

  

Things didn’t proceed quite as planned after this, but I think we handled it well. We gathered by the door to the basement where we expected the chalice to be, near a large training area of sorts. However, we were quickly surrounded by suspicious guards; the prisoner cover was only going to last for so long, I suppose. We enacted a great farce of pretending to help a cultist succumbing to poison, secretly ending his life while they weren’t paying too close attention. I’m frankly shocked we got away with that.

  

The guards kept closing in, growing more and more suspicious. I knew I had to act fast, and suspicions were brewing in my mind about the true location of the Chalice; why would they keep it in a small, dank basement-closet? I thought to kill two birds with one stone, and used my Ventriloquism magic to create a horrible yell from inside the basement. The yell was a cry of “Help! Someone’s stealing the Chalice!” or words to that effect. The guards were confused, blurting out that the Chalice should be in the east wing on the opposite end of the fortress; another gambit paid off.

  

However, they still had us surrounded, so I tried one more use of Ventriloquism: this time, a mighty yell of pain from within the nearby training room. The cultists, by the grace of Uvuko, fell for it and all piled into the Training Room. Immediately we closed the doors on them, and I sealed it with the Lock crystal I had also bought for just such an occasion. With luck, it would take them some time to break out of the room, but we weren’t going to delay; to the east wing we hurried, hoping to make it before they transported the Chalice.

  

Our last step was to check the jewellery room that Mori had supposed couldn’t contain the chalice–and indeed, it quite closely fit the description Eltros had provided me of the treasury. Specifically the extra room, locked with a magical enchantment, which supposedly housed our quarry. One of our group was burned quite badly by the enchantment when trying to open the door (utterly heedless of danger!), so we retreated to the nearby room where we’d first entered the fortress; a fitting place to plan how we’d retrieve it once the transport began.

  

I devised one last plan (exceedingly grateful that the party had played along with all my plans thus far). I would clean Isaac’s cultist uniform (bloodied from the semi-wanton killing) with Prestidigitation and have him stand guard by the treasury. Meanwhile, Mori and I would wait here in the armoury as Kitah and Mirah hid in separate rooms very close by. As soon as the Cult Leader emerged with the Chalice, Isaac would give us a signal, prompting the four of us to leap out and surround the cultists–a chance to take the chalice and get out of here.

  

Luckily, everyone was happy with my plan, and it mostly proceeded as expected.

  

The Cult Leader and his lackeys emerged from the treasury, each holding a box. We were sure that one of them contained the Chalice of Blight, so (after a worrying delay), Isaac gave the four of us the signal and we jumped out of our respective hiding rooms. The cultists, of course, were willing to fight tooth and nail for the keystone to their nefarious rituals.

  

Isaac kept the Cult Leader busy with his sword while Kitah and Mirah held off the lackeys with their fighting prowess. This allowed Mori and I to get the jump on them! I was able to crush one with my hammer in one blow, as Mori provided backup fire from another angle. Then, as Kitah ended one of the other cultists, he found what we’d been searching for in a dropped coffer: The Chalice of Blight. We could hear the cacophony of a dozen cultists rushing to catch us, so we made our escape. The leader was within an inch of his life, but we had no time to finish the job, and so together we ran to the high wall we’d climbed onto.

  

Our local acrobat Kitah was fine leaping from the wall and breaking his fall, but for the rest of us, I summoned one last staircase down to terra firma. We all escaped down the stairs before I gave the cultists one last salute, dismissing the stairs before they could follow us. Farewell! Oh, and Mirah bravely stayed behind as a distraction, to be resummoned by Kitah afterwards.

  

We took a very brief moment to catch our breath. All that remained was to check on the prisoners we’d rescued, as we prayed for their safety.

  

And thankfully, the prisoners were okay. They’d managed to escape cultists looking for them in the forest thanks to the hiding places we’d spotted. Quickly, we caught a carriage back to Risedon and took them back to the guild with us; hardly a site of advanced healthcare, but we have food, beds, and people who know how to take care of others.

  

Furiko was very pleased with our accomplishments; we’d retrieved the chalice, the prisoners, and some books of decent value to Risedon’s library. Kitah then kindly handed the chalice over to me, trusting me with its fate. 

  

Everyone had a hearty, well-earned meal together in the guildhall. Mori was especially and uncharacteristically emotional, seeing his precious friend finally safe and sound after the traumatic experience he’d been through. He took a moment to thank us all from the bottom of his heart, revealing his “true” voice to us (the accent he’d had until now was fake, it seems…?). The rest of us pulled him into a big group hug, showing that we appreciate him just as much. He’s been here since the beginning, and is absolutely one of us.
